# What is a man-in-the-middle attack?
ARP protocol, in a local area network is used to pair IP and MAC addresses. If one device wants to communicate with another on the same LAN, ARP protocol comes in when identifying the MAC address of the target with given IP. The way that this process works is first sender send an ARP broadcast to the network asking for the mac address of the host with the IP address x.x.x.x. Next, the host with that IP send an ARP relpy containing their MAC address. Then the obtained mac address is used by the sender to transmit the frame to the relevant host. But this protocol has a serious security whole where you can pair your IP and MAC in another host's ARP entries even if they don't ask for it. And since you can spoof the IP and MAC headers of your ARP reply, one can impersonate to be anyone in the network. We deceive the router into believing that we're a specific client, and deceive the client to believe that we're the router, thus putting our computer in the middle of the these two hosts. 

# How does the tool work?
Our defense tool simply looks at the arp entries by executing "arp -n" which displays all the entries saved in the host. Then, it looks for two different IP addresses with the same entry. That only happens when there's a man in the middle attack since the attacker replicates the MAC address of a legitiate host and makes it look like he has that MAC address too. When that happens, the tool gives you a notification indicating there's a man in the middle attack so you don't give away any sensitive information over an unencrypted protocol.

# Where should I use it?
This tool can be used in public networks and untrusted environments to prevent situations where you may reveal your confidential data without encryption.
